[Applause]
[Music]
now there are a lot of choices you have
to make when spending your evolution
points adapting in the right ways can
really take a gameplay to the next level
but specking into the wrong abilities
and stat combos can actually end up
reducing your build fly ability there
are a lot of traps players can fall into
and choosing which perks they want so
today I want to talk about the five most
common pitfalls that I see in the builds
of today's meta game mobility is a
costly stat movement costs energy and
careless overuse of it can drain your
stamina to a dangerous level if your
stamina gets low your HP will start to
go down too so inefficiency can pretty
quickly lead to a game over for example
the hummingbird needs to find an energy
source every 10 minutes or it's game
over
being able to hover in place and having
full 360-degree motion costs a lot
energetically speaking so it's super
easy for them to burn through their
stamina and eat into their HP reserves
the same can be said about shrews which
have to eat up to 2 times their own body
weight per day just to not burn out she
does experience this issue to some
extent to their top speed out classes
all other land builds but this ability
has an extremely long cooldown because
when it's used it burns through a ton of
stamina it generates a lot of body heat
and since cats can't sweat this heat
cannot be dissipated on the move like it
can in humans for example personally I
think this style of gameplay is
extremely risky
it's high-risk high-reward though since
obviously all three of these bills offer
pretty unique advantages hummingbirds
have agility that can match that of a
dragonfly cheetahs have record-breaking
speed and shrews have a venomous bite so
tool use is one of the most broken
abilities in the game among other things
tool use allowed humans to ascend to top
tier and dominate the meta other builds
can use tools too and can mitigate the
shortcomings of their stats and
abilities chimpanzees can't dig
particularly well but they can still
access termites by using tools and can
do so because they expect in two hands
instead of paws or who's
cephalopods have horribly low defensive
stats but that can still block attacks
using tools they can do this because
they not only have the intelligence
required but also because they have
suction cups that can grab items instead
of just having fins but there are a lot
of builds that have the intelligence
required to use tools but can't due to a
lack of dexterity builds like dogs
dolphins and pigs all fit that
description now obviously all those
bills are anything but low tier but I do
think it's the biggest shortcoming one
of the biggest pitfalls I see struggling
players fall into is that after they get
bodied in the server several times
instead of continuing to evolve and
trying to come up with a counter
strategy to whatever is defeating them
they'll instead invest some points into
nocturnal abilities and avoid the issue
entirely that sounds like a smart play
but all you're doing is nerfing your own
character wasting precious evolution
points and planning on easy mode in most
servers the date lasts longer than the
night so daytime players have much more
time to gain experience
notice how prosimians are always
nocturnal except on Madagascar where
they don't have to contend with apes and
monkeys notice how bats are nocturnal
except the ones that have SPECT into a
bulky enough build that they don't have
to worry about hawks and eagles as much
more and more players are making this
mistake because of human activity during
the daytime and it's severely hampering
their ability to improve and overcome
the increasingly challenging human
matchup this next one is a two-parter
having to do with teeth and two three
generation teeth are one of the most
common weapons in the game and there are
a lot of special perks teeth can have
hypodermic needle teeth are perfect for
dealing venom damage serrated teeth
shield bonus bleed damage pointy teeth
make it harder for the target to escape
a grab combo large teeth give you a
passive intimidation bonus and can work
as a disjointed hitbox the list goes on
but for players that use teeth as a main
part of their game plan the ability to
regenerate teeth can be critical the
first mistake I see players make is
having brittle teeth without specking
into the tooth regeneration perk without
this ability breaking a tooth can be a
game ender for bills like lions or
wolves so if you rely on teeth as your
main source of damage be sure to choose
the
agent Burke as one of your abilities to
ensure you don't incur a devastating
damage debuff by breaking your teeth
look at sharks and crocodiles for
examples of top-tier bills that
constantly replace their teeth okay but
on the other end of the spectrum if
you're playing a non DPS build I really
don't recommend having too good a tooth
regeneration ability it might seem like
something that you would always want
just in case but many players end up
running into the opposite problem they
don't use their teeth enough and
actually end up taking damage when a
teeth grow too long many warthog rodent
and rabbit Mane's lose the game because
their teeth weren't used enough to keep
them from growing out so the point here
is if you're a DPS player to 3gen is a
great perk if you're a non DPS player
you may want to think twice and make
sure you really need it before choosing
this perk the techniques that a high
intelligence that grants you access to
are the most broken techniques in the
entire game but they require time to
master and are also best learned by
having another player use that each
skill if your bill has a short lifespan
it's very difficult to gain the
experience required to perfect these
techniques bills like the crow and
octopus although just as smart as
parrots and elephants can never hope to
achieve the same level of knowledge and
wisdom the reverse is true to a build
with an extremely long lifespan but low
intelligence is being equally wasteful
of their potential thanks again for
watching and thanks especially to our
patrons on patreon until next time good
luck out there
[Music]